European Continent; It is located in the north of Africa, west of Asia and east of the Atlantic Ocean. Europe; It is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean in the west, the Arctic Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean in the north, the Mediterranean Sea in the south and the Asia continent in the east. The continent of Europe approaches the Strait of Gibraltar in Africa 14 km in the south. In the southeast, it is almost adjacent to Asia, approaching 0.7 km to the Bosphorus and 1.3 km to the Dardanelles Strait. The extreme points of Europe are; North Cape in the north, Cape Matapan of Peloponnese in the south, Cape Portugal in the west, Ural Mountains in the east. The width of the continent is 5,500 km and its length is 3,800 km.

The continent ranks 6th among other continents in terms of surface area and 3rd in terms of population. 11.5% of the total world population lives in the European Continent. Europe continent constitutes 6.8% of the land on the earth. The number of people per km² is 69.7. With this ratio, it ranks second after Asia. The city with the highest population density is Istanbul. The highest point of the continent is Elbrus Mountain, which is within the borders of Russia with an altitude of 5,633 meters. The lowest point is the Caspian Sea, which is 28 meters below sea level and forms the border with Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran and Kazakhstan.

The most widely known languages ​​other than the mother tongue are English, French, German, Spanish and Italian, respectively. Although 225 indigenous languages ​​are spoken in the continent, this number constitutes only 3 percent of the languages ​​spoken in the world.

In Europe, the religion that has been the most affiliated for the last one thousand five hundred years is Christianity. In South East Europe and Turkey, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the majority of people in some countries such as Albania belong to the Islamic faith. Many Western European countries have Muslim minorities, mostly immigrants. Other religions represented in Europe by a small number of members are Judaism, Buddhism, Sikhism and Hinduism. The largest of these communities live in England and France.

Mediterranean climate prevails in the western coasts and south of Europe. The warm gulf stream in the western region warms the climate. Continental climate is dominant in the Eastern European Continent. In southern Europe, the summer months are hot and dry. There is high amount of rainfall around the Alps. In Northern Europe, it is mostly rainy and foggy with very few sunny days.

According to the agreement between some European countries, a Schengen Area without internal borders was created. With the Schengen Agreement signed in 1985, five European Union members took the first step towards removing the controls at internal borders. In the following years, the majority of EU countries and some non-EU countries joined this cooperation and formed the Schengen Area together. You can enter this zone with a single visa.
