The part between the north and south of America is called Central America. Central America is located in the southeast of Mexico and northwest of Colombia. The only exception is Belize in the continent whose official language is Spanish. Belize country uses English as the official language.

The surface area of ​​the continent is 600 thousand square kilometers. Its population is 167 million according to the 2013 census.

Especially the southwestern part of the continent has a rugged and mountainous structure. Towards the northeast, flatter landforms show themselves. Southwest shores are mostly covered with plains. It is rich in rainforests as it receives a lot of rain. These forests have abundant rubber, mahogany, cedar and palm trees. The most common animals of Central America are monkeys and parrots. Wild animals such as wolves, deer, rabbits and squirrels are found in the northern parts of the region. Cattle breeding is among the important livelihoods of the continent.

The continent is located on the earthquake zone. There are frequent earthquakes. The reason for this is that it is a geologically newly formed continent. The same feature manifests itself in the abundance of volcanoes. There are about 250 volcanoes in Central America, which is a volcanic region.

The mountains reaching perpendicular to the sea caused the formation of streams that were short and directly poured into the sea. There are no rivers of great importance. Managua and Nicaragua are among the main lakes in the continent.

The countries of Central America with a coastline to the Caribbean Sea and the Great Ocean; Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Panama. Connecting the Atlantic Ocean and the Great Ocean, the Panama Canal forms the narrowest part of the continent.

Central America has a very strategic importance with its location between North and South America. However, this position has been reflected as a disadvantage to countries in the continent. Most of the time, a stable political and economic course cannot be followed in the continent. This is why the countries here were called "Banana Republic" for a period.

Aztec, Mayan Indians lived here before the continent was discovered by the Spaniards.

The continent has a tropical climate, the average annual temperature is 25 ° C, and temperature changes not exceeding 10 ° C are observed between summer and winter. The coastal regions have a temperate climate, which is due to winds.

Depending on the climate, especially tropical products are grown in Central America. Coffee and banana are the main products of the region.
In Central America, which is rich in minerals, gold, silver, copper, tin, lead, iron, zinc and coal are mined. However, its economy is based on agriculture and animal husbandry.

Central America's economy is largely based on agriculture and animal husbandry. Banana and coconut cultivation and beekeeping are done with advanced methods.
The mountainous and rugged structure of the continent does not allow a developed transportation network. Seaway is the most preferred route in foreign trade.