* Included in Middle East Asia. It is given as a separate section on the site for ease of use.

Middle East; Turkey, Egypt, and is the general name of all the lands between Persia. According to a religious view, the places where Prophet Abraham was born, raised and lived are called the Middle East. The Middle East, where the continents of Europe, Asia and Africa meet, is the birthplace of three great religions. An important trading center and also the place where great battles of the Middle East, the entire Arabian Peninsula, Egypt, Israel, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey to get into. The name of the region comes from the fact that it is located in the middle of the Far East road. In the region covered by the Middle East, there are large sand deserts and the longest rivers in the world, the Nile, Euphrates and Tigris. The climate of this region, which is very rich in terms of geographical forms, also varies. The climate is generally hot and dry, but elevations close to the Mediterranean are covered with snow. Some Middle Eastern regions do not receive rainfall for years.

The Middle East is known for its rich oil and gas reserves. Thanks to the sale of oil to other countries, some countries have developed highly developed luxury cities. Agriculture has a very important place in the Middle East. Cotton, tobacco, dates, oranges, grapes and olives are grown and offered to the world trade market. Some countries, such as Egypt, also earn income by taxing merchant ships passing through the canals. Algeria is the country with the largest surface area among the Middle Eastern countries. The country with the most population is Pakistan.

Middle East history is the starting point of the history of civilizations and it is the starting place of agriculture and settled life. The first written texts were found here, heavenly religions were born here. The oldest civilization is today's Sumerian Civilization established between the Euphrates and Tigris. The Sumerians, who used the cuneiform script, built canals and cities here.

Undoubtedly, the most important city of the Middle East is Jerusalem. The importance of the city comes from its rich history. Hz. It is the capital of the Jewish Kingdom during the time of David. Hz. After the death of David, Hz. Solomon, Hz. He builds the "Temple of Solomon" on the Mabed Hill, where the rock he chose to sacrifice Abraham's son Isaac is located. This temple is the first holy temple of the Jews. In the following periods, Hz. Jesus gave his struggle to spread Christianity in these lands. Then the city passed into the hands of the Muslims in 634 and Hz. It is believed that Muhammad ascended to the sky here. Among the other important cities of the Middle East are Cairo, known for the Pyramids of Giza, Petra, the city carved out of stones, Dubai, where the world's largest hotels are located, Doha, one of the world's leading cities, and Luxor, where the largest Egyptian temples are located.