North America is the continent located in the northern hemisphere, surrounded by the Arctic Ocean to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the east, the Caribbean Sea to the south, and the North Pacific Ocean to the west. It is in the northern part of the land mass, also known as the "New World". The only land connection of North America to South America is the Panama Canal.

The continent can be divided into four major regions: the Great Plains from the Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian Arctic; Geologically young, mountainous west, which includes the Rocky Mountains, the Great Bass, California, and Alaska; Canadian region in the northeast; and the eastern region, which includes the Appalachian Mountains and the Florida peninsula. The North American continent ranks third in the world in terms of surface area and fourth in terms of population. 8 percent of the total world population lives in the North American continent. North American continent constitutes 16.5 percent of the earth's land. The number of people per km² is 21. The city with the most population density is Mexico City, located in Mexico. The highest point of the continent is Mount McKinley in the USA with a height of 6,198 meters. Its lowest point is Jakobshavn Isbræ in Greenland, at 1,512 meters below sea level. There are 23 countries on the North American continent that are recognized by the United Nations.

The climate of North America varies by region. The arid deserts of New Mexico and Arizona states have different climates. With the influence of the Pacific Ocean and the Alaskan currents, the western coasts of the USA and Canada have a rainy and dry climate in summer. The climate of the eastern coasts is also warmed by the gulf stream. There is an uneven rainfall in the low parts of the interior regions. The gulfs in the south and the regions on the Atlantic Ocean coast of the USA are always in danger of a summer hurricane.

Major coal deposits in North America are located in the USA and Canada. One of the most important uranium resources in the world is in Canada. Important minerals such as oil are in the USA and Canada; Lead, zinc and silver deposits are also found in Mexico. Fishing is common, especially in the northern coasts and the Great Lakes region.

Transportation in North America is highly developed, and air, rail and highways are greatly developed. It is not known from what date human life has existed in North America. However, it is first claimed that the Indians migrated from Asia to North America about 25 thousand years ago. Eskimos came and settled in North America 605 years ago.

The most common languages ​​spoken in North America; It is in English, Spanish and French. In the USA, a variant of English called American English is spoken. In Canada, the valid languages ​​are English and French. While Spanish is spoken in the south of North America and Mexico, Indians and Eskimos use their own language among themselves. Christianity prevails in the context of religion and belief throughout the continent. Most of the people of the USA are Protestants, and the people of the Spanish-speaking regions are Catholic.