Antarctica, called "Antarctic" in Greek, means "across the Arctic". This continent was discovered in 1840 by Charles Wilkes after a 200-year search.

Antarctica is the only continent that is located in the southernmost of the Southern Hemisphere and has no countries. In addition, the region is so arid that; There are places on the continent that have not received rain for 2 million years.

Another important feature of the continent is that it takes many years to be discovered. Antarctica was found in 1840 after nearly 200 years of search. The naval officer Charles Wilkes, who sailed by sailboat, proved that, unlike the North Pole, there is a continent in the South Pole after long efforts. This continent, which is half the size of the African continent with a surface area of ​​14.4 kilometers, has actually been discovered section by section. As we mentioned, the first place on the continent discovered by Wilkes was named Wilkes Land. If we compare it in size, Antarctica; It is the largest continent after Asia, Africa, North America and South America. So it is the 5th largest continent.

The thickness of the ice covering the polar point of the continent is approximately 4,335 meters. It has even been revealed that the ice in Antarctica constitutes 92 percent of the ice in the world.
In the South Pole, the world's coldest and harsh climatic conditions prevail. We can say that the temperature is -20 degrees in summer. However, if storms blow from the south, it is possible to observe that the temperature in the continent reaches -70 degrees. If we give an annual average, the average temperature of the continent is -50 degrees.

If we look at the name Antarctica, the word is the opposite of north. Since the continent is a place of curiosity, there are people living in the places shown. If we look at it as a permanent population, winter lives on the continent for months. The population ratio in the surrounding islands rises to 5,000 people.

If we look at the vegetation of Antarctica, it will be seen that no plants can grow here. Because in Antarctica, both the climatic conditions, the soil structure and the amount of sunlight are very bad. Unlike plants, there are animal species that have adapted to the continent. Penguins, seagulls, birds, seals, squid and whales live here feeding on fish and plankton from the Antarctic seas. Penguins are indigenous to Antarctica. Contrary to popular belief, polar bears do not live here.

Transportation in the continent is very difficult due to the climate. Inland transportation is generally provided by snowmobiles and ATVs. Especially not using dry routes is the main reason for accidents occurring in the continent. Those who want to find their way in Antarctica can use GPS devices.

There is no official administrative unit on the continent. There is also no hotel. Antarctica has a summer season of about 45 days, during which tours are organized to the continent. These tours are daily, ie without accommodation. The area inside the polar circle on the continent is closed to visitors. If you want to visit Antarctica to have a different experience, you should know that you can only visit the coastal regions.

Transportation to the continent is provided from New Zealand and Chile. It takes approximately 10 hours to reach the continent by plane from New Zealand. From Chile, the continent can be reached via sea travel. This voyage takes about 4 or 5 days.