The South American Continent, which forms the southern half of America; It is located east of the Pacific Ocean, west of the Atlantic Ocean, south of North America and north of Antarctica. The continent is 7,200 km long in the north-south direction and 5,300 km wide in the east-west direction. South America ranks fourth among continents in terms of area and fifth in terms of population. 6 percent of the total world population lives in the South American continent. South American continent constitutes 12 percent of the land on the earth. The number of people per km² is 20.8. The most densely populated city is the Brazilian city of São Paulo. The highest point of the continent is Aconcagua Hill at 6,960 meters in Argentina. The lowest point is Argentina's Laguna del Carbón lake, which is 105 meters below sea level.

Amazon River, one of the first to come to mind when talking about South America, is the river that carries the most water per second in the world. It takes its source from the peaks of the Andes in Peru. It is the river with the largest basin with its 7 million square meter basin. The river basin spreads to 6 countries: Peru, Colombia, Brazil, Bolivia, Ecuador, and Venezuela. The Amazon River, passing through these countries, flows into the Atlantic Ocean. Since it has a wide basin, transportation can be made on it. The Amazon region is covered with tall and tropical trees. Many parts of this region are also marshy. The Amazon rainforest is the most diverse part of the continent.

South America is poor in lakes. The largest of these are the Titicaca and Poopo lakes, and both lakes are well above sea level. Brazil alone produces half of South America's total agricultural production. Argentina and Venezuela are next.

Differences in landforms cause various climatic types in the continent. Equatorial type, tropical, temperate and cold climates are seen. Amazon region, northeast and northwest coasts and southwest of Chile are the regions with abundant rainfall. In the southeastern regions of the continent, with the influence of the sea, the temperature is above zero even in the coldest month. Ocean currents affect the climate on the east and west coasts of the continent. The Peruvian current cools the southwestern coast of the continent.

The most visited regions in the South American Continent; The Galapagos Islands of Ecuador are the Iguazu Falls on the border of Argentina and Brazil, Machu Picchu and Cuzco in Peru, and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil's second largest city.

Portuguese and Spanish are the languages ​​most spoken in South America. Spanish is used as the official language in many countries along with the local language of the country. Portuguese is the official language of Brazil, Dutch Suriname, English Guyana, and French French Guiana. The most common South American indigenous languages ​​are Quechua, Aymara, and Guarani. It is also used as an official language in many places.