Oceania consists of four parts: Australia, Melanesia, Polynesia, and Micronesia. Being a true small continent and located between the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean, three-quarters of Europe's size, Australia is the largest land in this region. Melanesia includes Australia and islands to the east of Indonesia. These islands often include New Guinea. Polynesia includes the New Zealand archipelago and the Central Pacific Ocean islands to the north and south of the Equator. Micronesia includes the archipelago north of Malaysia. The islands, which are included in the various archipelago, generally extend from northwest to southeast and are mostly arranged in an arc.

It is the smallest continent in terms of area. In terms of population, it ranks 2nd from the last, after Antarctica. 0.5 percent of the total world population lives in Oceania. The continent of Oceania constitutes 5.9 percent of the land on the earth. The number of people per km² is 3.6. Sydney is the most densely populated city in Australia. The highest point of the continent is Puncak Jaya Hill with an altitude of 4,884 meters. Australia's lowest point is Lake Eyre, which is 15 meters below sea level.

Almost all of the Oceania islands are in the tropical region. In the New Zealand archipelago, Tasmania, and southeast and southwest of Australia, an oceanic or mediterranean type of temperate climate prevails. In other parts, the temperature is high throughout the year. Land and sea breezes blowing from east to west soften the climate of many islands. A harsh equatorial climate prevails in some of the Melanesian islands.

The population of very primitive indigenous peoples in Australia is small and dispersed. Australian natives or "Aborigines" are found in almost every part of the continent. As a result of the epidemics and the deterioration of traditional life at the end of the 19th century, the population of indigenous people decreased. In New Zealand, New Guinea, and some islands of Melanesia, folds and ruptures are often very recent, and these islands often have earthquakes and eruptions with volcanoes. This region is tectonically active. Most of the islands are surrounded by colorful and diverse coral reefs. There are many animal species native to the continent living in Oceania. Kangaroo, ostrich, koala, Tasmanian devil, dingo, flying frog are some of them.

In the Oceania continent; English, Spanish, and French are common. Besides, indigenous languages ​​belonging to many different language families are also spoken. The dominant religion in Oceania is Christianity. Most traditional religions are based on animist and traditional tribal beliefs. Recently, humanism, atheism, agnosticism and rationalism have started to spread in Australia and New Zealand.