Located in the east of Europe, west of the Pacific Ocean, north of Oceania and south of the Arctic Ocean, Asia is the largest continent in the world and is the highest with an average altitude of 1,010 meters. Burn Çelyusk the north of the continent in Russia, Bur Burn in the Malacca Peninsula in the south, Dejnev Burn Burn is located in Gokceada Avlaka Chukchi Peninsula to the west and the east of Turkey. The width of the continent is 8,200 km and its length is 8,490 km. If the islands are included in the north-south direction, the distance between Severneya Zemlya Island and the Rudi Islands of Indonesia is 10,245 km.

Asia is surrounded by the Arctic Sea from the north. In the North East, it is separated from America by the Bering Strait. The Pacific Ocean is located to the east and the Indian Ocean to the south. There are different opinions on the western border of Asia. However, the most accepted limit; It is a line to be drawn over the Ural Mountains, the Ural River, the Maniç Trough, the Black Sea, the Straits, the Aegean Sea, the Mediterranean, the Suez Canal and the Red Sea.

Asia is the largest continent in terms of area and population. 60 percent of the total world population lives in the Asian Continent. Asia is 29.5 percent of the land in the world. The number of people per km² is 86.7. Shangai is the most densely populated city in China. The highest point of the continent is Everest Hill with an altitude of 8,848 meters. Its lowest point is the Dead Sea, which borders Israel, Palestine and Jordan, which is 422 m below sea level. The highest peak in Asia is Everest, the largest lake Hazar Lake, the deepest lake Baikal Lake, the lowest point relative to sea level is the Dead Sea and the lowest basin is Turfan Basin.

Asia has played a role in the birth of many important religions. All three of the heavenly religions of Islam, Christianity and Judaism originated in the Middle East. Buddhism and Hinduism are also Asian religions. Turkish, Chinese and Indian civilizations were also born on this continent and have been living in this land for thousands of years.

Numerous languages ​​are spoken in this huge continent. Many countries have more than one official language. 600 different languages ​​and dialects are used in Indonesia, 800 in India, and more than 100 in the Philippines.

Various climate types are seen in the Asian Continent. The Arctic Sea in the north of the continent and the Arctic have a great impact on the climate of the region. In the Siberian region, the temperature drops to -50 degrees in winter and up to +5 degrees in summer. Central Asia has a harsh continental climate. In Tibet Plateau and Himalayas, temperature differences are very high and rainfall is low. South and Southeast Asia has mild, rainy monsoon climate.

Life span is long in the Asian Continent; 50,000 people over the age of 100 live in Japan alone. The continent is also home to the world's largest statue. The 153 meter tall statue is located in the Spring Buddha Temple in China.