African Continent; It is located in the south of Europe, east of the Atlantic Ocean, west of the Indian Ocean and north of Antarctica. Africa is bordered by the Mediterranean in the north, and separated from Asia by the Suez Canal in the northeast. The continent borders the Red Sea and Indian Ocean to the east. South of the continent; It is surrounded by the Indian Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean to its west. Continent; It is separated from Europe by the Strait of Gibraltar in the northwest. The furthest points of the continent are Cape White in Tunisia in the north, Cape Ahulhas in the Republic of South Africa in the south, Cape Ras Hafun in Somalia in the east, Cape Cape in Senegal in the west. The continent is 8,025 km long and 7,416 km wide.

Africa ranks second after Asia in terms of area and population. 14 percent of the total world population lives in the African continent. Africa constitutes 20.4 percent of the land in the world. The number of people per km² is 29.3. With this ratio, it ranks third after Asia and Europe. The most densely populated city is Lagos in Nigeria. The highest point of the continent is Mount Kilimanjaro at an altitude of 5,895 meters in Tanzania. Its lowest point is Lake Assal, which is 155 meters below sea level and is within its borders in Djibouti. There are many national parks throughout Africa. Safaris witnessing the wild nature closely are organized in these parks. Most visited African National Parks; Serengeti National Park in Tanzania, Bazaruto National Park in Mozambique, Chobe National Park in Botswana and Ahaggar National Park in Algeria. East Africa Crack, which was formed as a result of the separation of two fault lines from each other, formed the Çatlak Valley and the surrounding volcanoes. Kilimanjaro, Kenya and Meru Mountains and Ngorongoro are the most famous examples of volcanoes in the region. The formation of the Serengeti is the result of the activities of these volcanoes.

This continent was named "Africa" ​​during the Punic Wars. It was inspired by the name of the tribes called "Afri" or "Africani" by the Romans who first set foot in Carthage. Until then the continent was known as "Lebular Land" by the Greeks.

Africa's climate is changing as it is a large continent. There are both steppe areas, rainforests, and vast deserts. In this case, it creates different climatic conditions throughout the continent.

It is estimated that 2,000 different languages ​​are spoken in Africa. Africa is the continent where most languages ​​are spoken in the world. Following the end of colonialism, almost all African countries have adopted languages ​​such as English, French, Portuguese, Italian, Arabic as their official language. Religious beliefs are also very diverse in Africa. Besides local beliefs, the most common religions are Islam and Christianity.